Story Recapped here.
Today, I'm going to explain a crime, drama,
thriller film called "The Silence of the Lambs."
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care.
In 1990, an F.B.I.-in-training, Clarice Starling,
is called to the office of Jack Crawford from
the Bureau's Behavioral Science Unit.
In hopes of capturing the serial killer known
as Buffalo Bill, Jack assigns Clarice to interview
notorious psychiatrist-turned-cannibal Dr.
Hannibal Lecter.
However, before she leaves, Jack warns Clarice
not to talk about anything personal to avoid
getting Hannibal in her head.
At the Baltimore State Forensic Hospital,
Dr. Frederick Chilton welcomes Clarice but
makes suggestive remarks at her.
Chilton explains that they haven't progressed
with studying Hannibal's psyche despite his
years in the facility, but letting an attractive
young woman such as Clarice may have a chance.
Chilton lists down strict rules to safely
talk with Hannibal.
The precautions were set due to Hannibal biting
a nurse who performed an E.K.G. on him after
complaining about chest pains.
Due to Chilton's animosity against Hannibal
and his crude remarks about her, Clarice decides
to talk to Hannibal without assistance.
Heart pounding, Clarice walks down the hall
filled with imprisoned inmates, keeping her
chin up to show confidence.
Before Hannibal's cell, an inmate named Migs
gawks at her.
At the end of the hall, she sees Hannibal
Lecter standing, already expecting her.
Unlike the other inmates who are behind iron
bars, Hannibal's cell is behind reinforced
glass.
He gazes at her with interest, already deducing
that she's Jack Crawford's colleague.
Even when he notes from her I.D. that she's
still an F.B.I. trainee, Clarice refuses to
falter.
Clarice notices Hannibal's sketch of the Duomo
in Florence, Italy, admiring his ability to
draw from memory.
She diverts the topic to the F.B.I. questionnaire
she was sent to give, but this loses Hannibal's
interest.
He knows that Jack intends to use him to understand
and eventually arrest Buffalo Bill.
When asked why Buffalo Bill skins his victims,
Clarice believes that it's his trophies, as
most serial killers keep them.
Hannibal denies keeping trophies.
Clarice casually adds that he ate his victims
instead.
Her demeanor interests him, so Hannibal accepts
the questionnaire.
Hannibal finds it amusing the notion that
this would help them study him.
Hannibal starts listing down his observations
of Clarice, from her clothes to the accent
she tries to hide.
Clarice's speech finally falters as she challenges
him to use his keen observation on himself,
insinuating that he's afraid to do so.
Hannibal returns the questionnaire, sliding
the box loudly to startle her.
He leans to the glass as he recounts how a
census taker tried to test him, and Hannibal
ate his liver.
The story fills Clarice with dread.
Slowly, she walks away but stops when Migs
flicks bodily fluids onto her face, starting
a commotion.
Hannibal shouts for Clarice, apologizing to
her for the other inmates' behavior.
As compensation, he offers the name Moffet
and that she should "look into yourself" to
help her investigation.
Clarice walks out of the facility, unnerved
and in tears.
She comforts herself as she remembers welcoming
her father back home when she was a girl.
Later that day, Clarice browses through the
newspaper reports on Hannibal Lecter's case.
Jack calls to inform her that Migs has passed
away after swallowing his tongue.
In addition, the guards reported that Hannibal
was whispering to the inmate before the event.
The news fills Clarice with terror, thinking
of Hannibal's irritation at Migs' behavior
towards her.
But she doesn't share this with Jack, who
believes that Hannibal did it to amuse himself.
Jack asks about the name Moffet, unable to
find the name among Hannibal's old patients.
Clarice deduced that the phrase "look into
yourself" was too vague for Hannibal, which
led her to Your Self Storage Facility in Baltimore,
near where Hannibal used to live.
The keeper tells her that a person named "Miss
Hester Moffet" rents a unit at the storage
facility.
Inside the unit, Clarice finds a car with
a headless mannequin inside.
Removing a handkerchief from a jar, she discovers
a severed head inside.
Clarice heads back to the hospital to confront
Hannibal.
She sits on the floor in front of a T.V. set
while Hannibal sits in the dark.
Hannibal tells her that the head is his former
patient, Benjamin Raspail, whom he assures
that he didn't kill but only kept his head.
He suggests that Raspail was killed as an
experiment.
The lights turn on, revealing that Hannibal's
sketches have been taken away as punishment
for Migs' demise.
The gospel television program behind Clarice
is also part of his punishment.
Hannibal bargains to be transferred to a federal
prison with a view, away from Dr. Chilton,
in return for giving his psychological profile
on Buffalo Bill.
At Memphis, Tennessee, Catherine Martin enjoys
music while driving back home.
A man with night vision goggles spots her,
eyeing her as prey.
As she heads to her apartment, Catherine spots
a man trying to load an armchair into his
truck.
She offers her help, seeing the man's injured
arm.
Catherine hops into the truck to position
the chair inside, but the man punches her
several times, knocking her out.
He checks the size of her coat, happy to see
that she's a size 14, before cutting her blouse
and throwing it on the parking lot.
On their way to investigate a new body found,
Jack gives Clarice the case files, explaining
how Buffalo Bill keeps the victims for three
days and all injuries are post-mortem.
The bodies are always found in the river after
the water had washed off any evidence.
Clarice suggests that Buffalo Bill is a Caucasian
male in his thirties to forties based on the
evidence.
She believes that he will not stop anytime
soon, not after he has perfected his work.
Arriving at the funeral home, Jack talks to
Sheriff Perkins regarding the case.
Jack requests to speak about the delicate
case in private, eyeing Clarice.
The men are uncomfortable with her involvement
in a serial case that targets women.
Wanting to leave the awkward situation, Clarice
looks into a funeral ceremony in another room,
remembering her father's funeral.
In the autopsy room, Clarice sees the body
for the first time.
She is visibly bothered but pushes on, recording
her findings on a tape recorder.
First, she notes the woman is from the city
and that the dirt under her nails suggests
that she tried to claw her way out of something.
Next, Clarice notices something in the body's
throat.
Inside, they find a cocoon.
On their way back to the agency, Jack explains
to Clarice that he only told the sheriff not
to discuss the case in front of her to get
rid of him and his men.
With the help of friends, Clarice learns that
the cocoon is from a death's head moth, which
originates in Asia.
Given this, someone specifically raised them
in this area.
The news reports the disappearance of Senator
Ruth Martin's daughter, Catherine, who is
believed to be taken by Buffalo Bill.
This puts the Buffalo Bill case in the government's
attention.
Senator Martin pleads on television, repeating
Catherine's name several times to humanize
Catherine in Bill's eyes.
With the recent development, Clarice revisits
Hannibal.
Clarice relays the senator's offer to transfer
Hannibal to a maximum security facility in
exchange for helping them profile Buffalo
Bill in time to save Catherine.
But Hannibal demands Clarice to share personal
stories in exchange for his compliance.
Clarice tells the story of her father, a town
marshall who passed away while on the job.
Her mother was also gone when she was very
young, leaving her orphaned at ten years old.
For Hannibal's turn, he asks if Catherine
was a large woman; Clarice confirms that all
of Buffalo Bill's victims were.
She informs him about the moth they found
in the previous body and reveals they found
the same cocoon in Raspail's head.
Hannibal points out that the moth's cocoon
symbolizes transformation, and Buffalo Bill
wants to change as well.
Hannibal asks more about her story.
Clarice tells him about moving to her mother's
cousin's ranch.
She lived there for two months until she ran
away but not because of abuse.
Clarice then demands his turn.
Hannibal figures that Bill had applied for
transexual surgery but was denied due to his
mental condition.
He suggests that Buffalo Bill hates his own
identity and wants to change.
In a dark room, Buffalo Bill orders Catherine
to use lotion on herself.
Frightened and stuck inside a well, Catherine
does so.
She tries to negotiate, bringing up her mother.
Bill ignores her, calling her "it" to dehumanize
her.
Bill lowers a lighted basket to retrieve the
lotion, letting Catherine see the bloody claw
marks on the wall.
She screams in fear, with Bill mocking her.
Back at the cell, Hannibal is strapped to
a gurney with a muzzle on his face.
Chilton recorded Hannibal's conversation with
Clarice and tells him that Clarice's deal
was fake.
Chilton made a different deal with Senator
Martin.
He demands Buffalo Bill's name in exchange
for being transferred to a state prison in
Tennessee.
All the while, Hannibal stares down at a pen
that Chilton leaves behind.
His mind is working on a plan.
Hannibal gives the name Louis but will reveal
the last name only when he has met the senator
in Memphis.
In the airport, Hannibal is wheeled in, completely
strapped to his gurney.
Senator Martin arrives, hoping that the doctor
will help find her daughter.
She offers Hannibal an affidavit of their
deal, but he wants to jump ahead with the
case.
He tells them that Buffalo Bill is Louis Friend,
who was introduced to him by Raspail.
With the breakthrough, Chilton enjoys the
press' attention, allowing Clarice to pass
his security.
Clarice meets Hannibal in his new cell, returning
his old sketches as a peace offering.
He taunts her for wasting time with the fake
deal.
Clarice retorts back about Louis Friend, deducing
that it's an anagram for Iron Sulfide, otherwise
known as Fool's Gold.
Hannibal tells her that Buffalo Bill covets
something, asking Clarice why people covet
anything at all.
He demands more of her story, as they agreed
upon in his old cell.
Knowing that Chilton can find her any minute,
she begs Hannibal to skip her story, but the
doctor insists.
Defeated, Clarice reveals that she ran one
early morning after hearing screams.
She went to the barn and saw the lambs screaming
as they were being slaughtered.
Clarice tried to free them, but the lambs
didn't run.
So instead, she took one lamb and ran away
with it, wanting to save one life at least.
But the lamb was too heavy for her to carry,
so she was caught not long after.
Because of this, she was sent to an orphanage,
and the lamb she tried to save was still slaughtered.
Clarice still hears the lambs screaming at
night.
Hannibal suggests that if she could save Catherine,
maybe the lambs would stop.
Before Hannibal could say any further, Dr.
Chilton arrives, bringing officers to take
Clarice away.
Hannibal hands Clarice his copy of the case
file, which she hurriedly takes before being
pulled away.
After Clarice leaves, Sergeant Pembrey and
Officer Boyle deliver Hannibal's dinner, cuffing
him before opening his cell.
Unbeknownst to them, Hannibal took a piece
of Chilton's pen to pick the lock.
Boyle lays down his meal on the floor as he
clears the table.
Once Boyle kneels to retrieve his tray, Hannibal
cuffs him then kicks the door on Pembrey's
head.
Hannibal bites Pembrey's face, and pepper
sprays him before whacking Boyle with a baton.
Knowing his escape is inevitable, he takes
his time before pursuing Pembrey.
Downstairs, the officers notice the elevator
heading up to the fifth floor.
Shots are fired from afar, alerting all the
officers.
They wait for the elevator to head down, but
it stops at the third floor.
Sergeant Tate calls in the SWAT team for backup
as he and his team investigate the third floor.
They check Hannibal's cell, seeing Boyle's
body propped like an angel.
Pembrey is down with a bloodied face yet still
alive.
The officers load Pembrey into a gurney and
ride the elevator down the building.
While inside, blood drips from the ceiling,
suggesting that Hannibal is on the roof of
the elevator.
They spot him from above, unconscious with
a gun next to him.
The officers shoot him on the leg to prevent
him from escaping, but there's still no movement.
They open the elevator latch from the inside,
revealing a body with no skin on the face.
In the ambulance, Hannibal removes the mask
he made out of Pembrey's skin.
Learning about Hannibal's escape, Clarice
is anxious but is sure that he won't come
after her.
However, she and her friend find a note from
Hannibal in the case files he gave her, suggesting
that there's a pattern in Buffalo Bill's targets.
Remembering Hannibal's comment about Bill
coveting something, Clarice concludes that
Bill knew the first victim, Fredrica Bimmel.
Clarice visits Fredrica's home and searches
her bedroom.
Inside a music box, Clarice finds polaroids
of Fredrica posing in her undergarments.
After seeing stitching supplies and an unfinished
dress in Fredrica's closet,
Clarice deduces that Bill is making a skin
suit to turn himself into a woman.
Jack tells her that they already located him
in Chicago, a man named Jame Gumb A.K.A.
John Grant.
Jack tells her to gather information to connect
Gumb to Bimmel so they can use it for the
trial.
Catherine asks Fredrica's friend, Stacy, if
she knew Jame Gumb or his other aliases, but
Stacy doesn't recognize the name.
Stacy mentions that she used to help Fredrica
make alterations for Mrs. Litman.
Later in his house, Bill hears his dog whining.
Catherine has successfully captured his dog,
Precious, and holds her hostage, enraging
the man.
Outside, a SWAT team prepares to ambush Gumb's
house.
Bill hears the doorbell ring.
He heads up and opens the door.
But instead of the police, it's Clarice.
Meanwhile, in Chicago, the SWAT team finds
the Gumb house empty.
In Mrs. Litman's old home, Buffalo Bill introduces
himself as Jack Gordon.
He invites Clarice inside, claiming that he
has Mrs. Litman's son's number for her to
contact.
Clarice walks inside, eyeing the cluttered
place while Jack looks for the number.
Her eyes follow a moth landing on stitching
supplies.
The puzzle pieces fall into place.
Clarice aims her gun at him, but he retreats
to the basement.
Clarice follows him, hearing Catherine's cries,
and Precious' barks from afar.
Trembling in fear, Clarice breathes through
gritted teeth as she searches for Buffalo
Bill.
Clarice asks Catherine to be quiet, but the
woman continues to scream.
Clarice enters from room to room, jumping
at every noise, knowing that Buffalo Bill
is waiting to ambush her.
As she enters the bathroom, the lights go
out.
Buffalo Bill uses his night vision goggles
to watch the terrified Clarice.
Clarice feels around the room and slips in
the darkness, not knowing that he's just behind
her.
Bill admires her for a while before pointing
his gun at her.
The gun clicks, alerting Clarice.
She turns and shoots, breaking the windows
to let light in while Buffalo Bill lies on
the floor.
His crimes are finally over.
Days later, Clarice happily receives her official
F.B.I. badge.
Clarice thanks Jack for his mentorship and
the opportunity he gave her.
She takes a phone call, hearing Hannibal's
voice, asking if the lambs have stopped screaming.
Hannibal promises not to pursue her, asking
her to do the same.
But Clarice makes no promise.
Hannibal ends the call as he's "having an
old friend for dinner."
Hannibal follows Dr. Chilton in a foreign
village, finally able to get revenge on the
doctor.